in this video will talk about stepping through your code in break mode.
Normal code execution involved running your macro from start to finish in break mode,
However,
you can run your macaroons slow motion,
execute in one line at a time and monitoring values within your program.
As you do so and the exercises fold up,
we'll go back into 08 debugging and error handling,
and we'll go back into debug in practice.
And let's work with the macro that we used in the last video.
The first way to end a break mode is when your macro actually contains an error when it
generates a runtime era and as we know,
this particular macro will do just that.
So if I run when we get to the situation where we're trying to delete a table that no
longer exists,
were offered the chance of clicking on either end,
which simply terminates the macro well,
debug.
When we click debug,
we are now taken into what's called break mode,
so code execution is currently frozen,
but the macro is still technically running.
Now we know that it can't run properly because it has broken.
It's got to a stage where it can't do what it's being asked to do,
so we can't actually continue to execute it.
But what we can do in break mode is we can query all the various components within our code
.
So,
for example,
if I hover over the I,
you'll see that the data tip tells me I equal seven.
I can also introduce statements into the immediate window to do this.
I put a question mark and then I put any valid and relevant statement.
So,
for example,
let's have this document dot tables don't count.
I'm gonna hold down control and to strike this code in and then tied thought count.
When I hold her over this line,
you'll see it tells me the number of tables currently in this document is six.
So I know I seven and we've got six tables left.
I could also do something like I is greater than this document dot tables not count.
And I can't get the answer this time by harboring.
But of course,
he five percenter.
Then it tells me that that statement is true.
So that's the first way of getting into brake mode.
Whenever an error occurs,
you click on the debug button.
Let's just close the file without saving the changes and then go back into the original
version the second way of getting into brake mode.
It's simply to click on any line in your macro and use this step into command.
The most convenient way of doing that is to press F eight,
but you'll also find it under the debug menu.
Step into and also here on the deeper toolbar.
And,
of course,
if the debug toolbar is not visible,
you simply right click in the toolbar area.
Choose debug.
I'll use this method so you can see me doing it.
Yes,
it is.
I click.
I'm taking into brake mode on the line that will be executed when I pressed the step into
but next or when I press f eight,
Next is highlighted.
So this is the line that's gonna be executed next.
I simply keep pressing F eight to execute the program line by line.
So now I've jumped into the loop.
I has been initialized as one,
and when I pry separates again,
of course,
the first table now gets deleted.
If I get back to word,
I can see that the January table has gone and so forth.
And of course,
I can keep monitoring my values in the same way as we were just discussing.
So I can hover over different parts of the code to see what the current values are like in
that type in code,
in the immediate window.
So you can see I've got a Latin left and I can even introduce new code as I'm stepping
through like you just type in.
Then,
as I continued to press F eight,
when that Linus executed,
which is now And of course,
the benefit of this is that I'm taken back to the word documents,
so I might then be able to sort of,
ah,
monitor what's going on in the document,
which might be useful at that particular point in the D 1,000,000,000 process.
Once I finished with that,
I can take that line out on carry on debugging.
Okay,
so that's the second take.
Make you simply click on any line and you then start using this step into command to
actually execute your code line by line again.
Let's just close and reopen.
The third technique is to use what are called break points.
What this means,
basically is you can then run the macro.
Normally,
whenever a line that has a break point is encountered,
you're going to break mode.
And then from there you can either examine various elements of your code and continue on
run in the macro,
or you can proceed step by step.
As always,
there are several ways of adding a break point.
The easiest is simply to go into this bar on the left of your code and click,
and this basically is a toggle,
so you click to add the break point and you click to get rid of it.
Similarly,
you can right click on any line,
go to the toggle sub menu and shoes,
break points both ad and to remove.
And as you can probably guess,
if you look under the Deep Park menu,
you'll find exactly the same that total drink points on the short cut F nine.
And then,
of course,
on the debug toolbar.
We've got the same thing there.
Total break point F nine.
When a break points in place,
you simply run.
Your macro has been normal,
and when it encounters that line,
it then goes into brake mode without line frozen.
You can then carry out your usual investigations.
And when you already you can continue either by clicking the run button or Michael again
that continue.
So in this particular macro,
there's not much difference because we've just got the one line.
And,
of course,
at any point you can toggle the break point to switch it off and then either step through
normally from there or simply run to go to the end.
And,
of course we know what the end is.
We get to our problem state.
Okay,
lets close again.
And finally,
let's have a look at a couple of options that apply to the situation where the macro you'll
run in cools other,
some procedures.
So I'm just gonna create a second some procedure here.
Let's just call it other stuff,
and I'm gonna put another full loop in it.
Let's just say MSG folks,
and then in the main macro will put a call to that stubborn T.
So we're going to break mode by using F eight.
Step into now.
Once we've executed that line,
we're about to execute the call.
Other stuff.
Macro,
let's just close this for a moment on the normal circumstances.
If we keep pressing F eight,
it will go into that subroutine,
and it will allow you to step into it and execute loan byline in the same ways you're doing
in the main backer.
So let's just step through one to three.
Cool now.
Once it's completed that loop,
of course,
it returns back into the main macro.
We delete the next table,
and now we're about to do cool other stuff.
But he begin purposes.
If we happy that there's nothing going on in this sub procedure,
the sub preceded.
It's being called which we need to address.
We can simply run this other sub procedure rather than stepping through it as we did before
.
On this is where this option comes in.
Shift F eight step over.
It doesn't mean a mitt.
It means don't step through line by line.
So to step over means to actually simply execute the called subroutine Asper normal rather
than step through it line by line.
So when I click stepped over,
you'll see it goes through and there's my 1234 and then takes me back into the main macro.
Let's continue to step into at this time.
Let's use to step into to get into the macro.
So let's say we've checked out the first task and that's the one that we were interested in
checking out.
So we don't need to do any more steppin within this sub procedure we've seen as much as we
need to see.
We now want to just basically execute the remainder Aspen normal and then go back into the
original macro that we started from on.
This is where control shift F eight step out comes in.
So if you're in a macro that's being called in your stepping through it line by line,
you no longer want to step through line by line.
You just want to execute the rest of it.
Aspen normal.
Then you press control shift F eight will step out.
So we've already seen Task one performed.
Let me step out.
We see task 234 and then we taken back into the normal macro where we continue executing
line by line using step into or in any time we can simply say okay from here,
I just want to run it to the end.
My present the continue or run,
but until eventually we get to a bug.
So that's an overview of the main commands that we have at our disposal to step in
throughout code line by line.
In the final video in this section,
revert to the topic off monitoring our code,
and we'll look at working with watchers.
Brake mode can be entered by clicking the debug button when in error occurs my press in F
eight step into or by setting break points in break mode.
Press in FH causes v b A to execute the currently highlighted line of code and stop on the
next line president.
Shift F eight Step over allows you to execute a cold sir procedure rather than stepping
through it line by line while stepping through a cold.
Some procedure President Control Shift F eight Step out allows you to execute the remainder
of the sub procedure rather than sticking through it.
Line by line